## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

(Images/Elk Server Design.png)

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the playbook like Filebeat and Metricbeat file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

  - The playbook filebeat.yml is used to do the playbook for filebeat and metricbeat.yml is used to install metricbeat playbook which will use to install metricbeat. 

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly available and resilient, in addition to restricting high traffic to the network.
- What aspect of security do load balancers protect? What is the advantage of a jump box?
It helps streamline the network traffic and helps prevent overloading with too many server requests. This ensures uptime and optimizes functionality.
- It adds resliency to live traffic from one server to another and eliminate single point of failure from DDoD attacks.

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the vulnerability/ access of the system and system logs.
- Filebeat monitors the log files/locations that the administrator specifies. 
- Metricbeat monitors the statistics data and tranportation of data through various matrix specified by the administrator.

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.


| Name     | Function | IP Address | Operating System |
|----------|----------|------------|------------------|
| Jump Box | Gateway  | 10.0.0.1   | Linux            |
| ELK-VM   | Server   | 10.0.0.4   | Linux            |
| Web-1    | Server   | 10.0.0.5   | Linux            |
| Web-2    | Server   | 10.0.0.6   | Linux            |

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Jump-Box-Provisioner machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
- The Local IP address (20.115.118.212)

Machines within the network can only be accessed by Jump-Box-Provisioner.
- These machines can be connected with 10.0.0.1 and from the public IP address.

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name     | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses |
|----------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box | Yes                 | 10.0.0.1/Home IP     |
| Web-1    | No                  | 10.0.0.5             |
| Web-2    | No                  | 10.0.0.6             |
| Elk-VM   | No                  | 10.0.0.4/Home IP     |

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...
- What is the main advantage of automating configuration with Ansible?
Answer: The automating of configuration and management is easier. It also automates the configuration of the ansible

The playbook implements the following tasks:
- SSH into the Jump-Box-Provisioner (ssh azadmin@20.115.118.212)
- Start/attach the ansible docker 
- sudo docker ps -a
- sudo docker start gifted_rhodes
- sudo docker exec -ti gifted_rhodes /bin/bash

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

(Images/docker-ps-a.png)

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- | Web-1    | Server   | 10.0.0.5   | 
  | Web-2    | Server   | 10.0.0.6   |

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- Specify which Beats you successfully installed
  - Filebeat Module was installed successfully
  - Metricbeat Module was installed successfully

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
- In 1-2 sentences, explain what kind of data each beat collects, and provide 1 example of what you expect to see. E.g., `Winlogbeat` collects Windows logs, which we use to track user logon events, etc.

Filebeat is used to collect log files from specific remote machines.

Examples of Filebeats can be files that are generated by MS Azure. Also it shows what files are being used, what errors are happening and other statistics can be seen below

Metricbeat collects machine statistics and shows what kind of activity is happening on machines.

It is simply a measurement to see how healthy the systems are.

Examples of Metricbeat can be CPU usage/Uptime, what files being used.

(Images/Filebeat-log.png)

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the filebeat-config.yml file to /etc/ansible/files
- Copy the filebeat.yml file /etc/ansible/roles
- Update the filebeat-config.yml file to include ELK private IP address
- Run the playbook, and navigate to http://23.99.253.117:5601/app/kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.

- Copy the metricbeat-config.yml file to /etc/ansible/files
- Copy the metricbeat.yml file /etc/ansible/roles
- Update the metricbeat-config.yml file to include ELK private IP address


- Answer the following questions to fill in the blanks:_
- _Which file is the playbook? Where do you copy it?_filebeat.yml and metricbeat.yml is in /etc/ansible/roles
- _Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine? How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on? /etc/ansible/hosts file with the Web-1 and Web-2 IP address.
- _Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running?
http://23.99.253.117:5601/app/kibana
_As a **Bonus**, provide the specific commands the user will need to run to download the playbook, update the files, 

ansible-playbook install-elk